Right.
So let's go to the binary lifting first and then we will see how to go to the second part of it, which
is finding the gate box, which is very easy.
We've already discussed that.
But before moving to that, let me quickly called the.
Binary eight.
So with just two, if I wanted to take a do if I was one and let's take em, which is nothing but log
be scared that I talked to you about, right?
It is.
Let's take two.
And in this case, pull, for example, an upper limit.
Right.
But because.
And Cross 20 or cross 19 doesn't make much difference.
So.
Let's take the input of the tree first and let's make a vector.
Q And also, let me begin first.
So I wouldn't.
And what all other inputs do I have in the.
But I have.
Or.
Q read lips.
Let me read Q here.
I will take two variables x.
And by.
And Stig.
Excellent.
Stig.
Okay.
Sorry.
In this case, the input is not based on X and Y, right?
It's only based on X.
What is x?
X is the parent of a let's call it parent.
It is the parent of I.
It's given to me.
Right.
And I start from two and go Still in.
So the input here is a little different.
So what I simply say is I just push back the current node.
Into their decision to list off.
I that is great and I do the vice versa also and independent I just push back I it's internet acted.
Gottfried So here we are done with the input.
Now what I want to do is I want to performer DFS and calculate of, let's call it spar stable or.
It's called anything, right?
So basically, this article supposedly was biometrics.
These are the names for it.
But I just call it.
Parent or ancestor.
Parent seems good.
Also, you can call it up a leg.
How much of you are going to let's call it parent.
Well the parent of and Walmart to raise the D power g.
Well, I hope you answered this so it will stall for every.
For every northern visitor with its tourists devoured, jeered, spit, and they will go from zero to
less than him.
But it.
So let's start at the office from one little spot, zero minus one, and it's bearing rate.
So in this case, what I'll do is just to avoid this thing that is in the index I do doing one minus
one.
I want minus one to be happening in the index place of the parent area here.
Eight.
I don't want the minus one thing to be happening.
So what then?
What I'll do is I'll just initially take zero as an ultimate fitting date.
And while answering the queries, what will simply do is if the answer is zero, then we'll just return
minus one.
Well.
So let's say DFS and got ignored interfering node and let's perform the DFS.
And you co-founded The Office.
And what how do you do?
If X is not equal to parent dfs x comma.
Grand Canyon becomes the new eight.
I hope this is clear.
And we all know.
Before we reached one naught.
I wanted ancestors.
We needed to be filled.
Eight Because of the second part, which is f of whatever its ancestors, it's de minus one that should
be filled already.
That's what I do is I do the calculation over here.
So let's start from Jake.
What's two zero?
And you will go till less than M and replace plus eight.
And it's for the base case.
The base gives a symbol.
What is the current to this?
To the power?
The parent.
It is nothing but pain that we are passing.
Late.
Now.
Yeah.
Let's start from one and let's see what is guaranteed to raise to the power.
It been just nothing but.
It's two days to the power j minus one spring that is current's day minus one period which was already
calculated how it is already calculated because ten days equal to one.
Then we warned parents zero two respectively with European and basically this current zero, which is
already four.
Then when do the equals 2 to 8 go for current to what we want this current one which is failed because
Wendy was equal to one that was offered.
We are failing the previous values in using that values to compute the for the values.
So this will be paid in current day minus one and dooming whatever was its ancestor day minus one and
two restricted by one day minus one then.
We want it's two days to the power day minus one and system so that it can be current to restore the
power dating system.
So basically I'm doing a binary lifting here.
Eight.
So this is a normal record of religion, and we know that these values will be preferred because we
are performing it over here.
Do remember, if you write it, if you write discord over here, it will not work.
Why?
Because then what is happening?
We are firstly moving to the leaflet and then calculating the answers.
But when we are first calculating the answers from the lymph node, then we know its ancestors demeanors
went well.
You will not be fooled, right?
This this area would not be filled in that case and will get wrong answers.
So this is important if you perform it before performing the office.
In this way.
What we have done is we have in the.
We didn't get it.
Let me just print something just to check if we are getting some real answers or not.
I'll start you from one to in and I'll see Dave will go from 1 to 3.
Let's see.
And 3023.
And what I'll do is I'll just simply print.
I.
And it's present day.
And let's bring.
We didn't of idea.
So I used just good spirit.
Right.
So here we can see oh one.
G-Zero.
That means what if it's two days to the power date period?
That means okay.
Instead of that, let me just say to comment you to make it more clear.
Yeah.
Thought it was for speeding zero or just for a second.
We're in zero four.
This one's for three in zero.
That's true.
What is true is once we enter this one U.S. brand is to lose.
All brand is zero rate.
So with the tree.
This one.
Now, let's talk about three.
What is three?
First one.
The second button will be zero and restart.
Fourth button will be zero.
Pause.
One button is three fourths.
That can put into two.
Correct.
And fourth, fourth period is zero.
Similarly, 4545152 and five 548.
I hope you got this part.
Now we want to find noted scared parent eight.
So now let's take these cue queries.
Let's do while cue minus minus one.
We have kill it stick as an input and let's see out of give it parent.
Eight.
Or instead of Yeah, you get that and it will pass get to it.
It's an it's basket.
Do it and.
It's like a function called give Kate, parent Kate over here and.
What we will do is nothing.
But we'll just start a loop and let's call it day.
Both from m my again m minus one g greater than or equal to zero j minus weighted.
So what I actually want to do is I want to divide gain two powers of two.
I know how to do it.
Gained powers of two.
For example, k standard.
It should be two blessed to find its second parent and then find its eighth parent or find its eighth
parent and find its second parent board with the same rate.
So I can start this G from zero also.
They less than M.
Joblessness.
Correct.
Find its true parent and find its.
Some other period.
I hope that's clear.
Because if we do to blessed or was to both of them, I see it and let's see let's call in on single
parent.
We didn't.
And he should.
Let's.
Let's initialize it.
I'm.
With the current value rate so indicative.
I got two integers h.
Sorry, but in this query I've got two integers which is zero komaki the first x10 and I also have two
parsecs eight.
Because we want a starting place, right?
Well it's initially the parent is he goes to X and if gave will aid now will start from J will start
from zero go to him.
And I simply say if that bit of case said eight that means if gay rights if two times and one you all
know about this raid because.
Okay let me finish then.
What happens is a five 1111 in binary it is written as one.
The
1101000000 rate.
So obviously it is eight plus two plus one.
So what else?
If that did we dissect?
That means take that element and take the 2 to 3 poverty rate.
So if that really said, then I'd simply say we it is nothing, but it is equal to.
The knot on which I was on.
It's too late to devour Jupiter and eight.
So I simply say, instead of waiting, let's call it.
Got it.
That would make more sense in this skit.
But currently I on some particular note, I want to jump to it.
Did you study -- parent religion by simply writing this current request to parent current committee?
Now I move to summarize a note current has become to some of that, nor not even move forward and take
for another set.
If that were to say again, it will jump up eight.
And finally, Elton.
But now we know just one thing, that if current is equal to zero, then we currently will do minus
one because we know we started with zero to be the ancestor of one eight just to avoid some minus one
values in the indexes eight because that would give me some segmentation fault.
So if current is zero, that means zero cannot be the parent of any node.
That means current is equal to N and I just didn't care and let me build it.
So what I got is three one minus one.
So let me give slash in.
So it is three one and minus one.
I hope you understand this problem and this this binary lifting thing, which is calculating this vast
matrix.
And finding out the kids reading this will be using the next problem, which is.
Company going is two in which we have to find the lowest common ancestor.
So we will be able to find the lowest common ancestor in log of in age.
So I'm not solving the next problem.
I leave it to you because 95% of the next problem is done.
If you ever understood this kind of thing, you just have to figure out a way to find out lowest common
ancestors of two nodes, and that would be very easy.
There are multiple ways of solving it in the graph to the algorithms cause I have mentioned five six
ways of finding the LC.
So.
I won't be recording the next volume because it's very easy and the dynamic programming part of the
Knicks world, which has already been covered in this problem and in this, could it go over this once
and see in the next part?
Thank you.